NARRATIVE:
There are many factors that can cause car accidents/crashes such as mental health, alcohol use while or before driving, lightning on the streets, weather, seatbelt use, or even the day of the week. When talking about mental health there can be many things and/or factors that are related to car accidents. Two of the main points that interfere with our mental functions while driving are depression and anxiety disorders. These factors affect many of our cognitive functions, causing impairment in our emotions, thoughts, Process Problem Solving, and tasks that require several mental processes such as driving. According to Alavi (2017) around 13.6% of truck drivers suffer from depression. Also, those who suffer from a mental disorder, or any type of psychiatric problem are more likely to get involved in a car accident compared with those who do not suffer from any mental illnesses. Even though, depression or anxiety disorders are not the main causes of car accidents they do interfere with many of our cognitive functions and might cause a disruption while driving and be the cause of an accident. That’s why to prevent these types of events to happen would be important to have sometype of psychological tests before being able to continue with the process of getting a driver’s liscence. Furthermore, one of the main effects that a car accident can cause on our mental health is Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). This type of disorder is caused after being exposed to or being in the presence of an extreme incident, violence, or in a close-to-death experience. According to an experiment by Fekadu (2019) around 46.5% of the participants in that study suffered from extreme symptoms of this disorder (PTSD). Another factor that causes car accidents that is among the main or major ones is alcoholism, or the use of alcohol before and/or while driving. When driving under the influence of alcohol it causes an impairment in many of our cognitive functions such as paying attention and problem-solving behaviors. According to the OTS webpage, in the United States around one-third of the total car accidents in the country are bcause of drivers under the influence. One event that occurred in the Imperial Ave., El Centro, C.A. in an establishment called Hamburger Stand, a car dirven by a person who is still under investigation but is said that the person was under the influence of alcohol (IVP, 2021). 
Another factors that are also very important in certain parts of the cities all around the world causing car accidents are the lightning on the streets and if it is during daylight or at night and if it is on weekdays or weekends. According to the U.S Department of Transportation (2021) mortality rates are significantly higher during the night and this is because during this time people are more likely to go faster and have less time to react when something happens on the road. In this article it said that in order to prevent this type of accidents on the road certain types of lights such as horizontal and vertical illuminance could be better and also safer for everyone.
